oh that roasted turkey was delicious
yeah
we still enjoy it in 2150 the world's
not that different today
most things that were so common in the
21st century
still exist in the 22nd turns out
there's only one major change today
and it's the water supply it all started
with field irrigation using energy
drinks
and even though it wasn't a success they
had another idea
now they want to replace all the water
in the supply system
with hand sanitizer they just think it
could be better
cleaner and safer for everyone they also
thought it could help with greasy
roasted turkey plates
let's see what sanitizer normally
contains
the first and most important ingredient
is alcohol
to help tear off that fatty coating any
bacteria have
when a germ gets in contact with alcohol
its coat bursts off
and it can no longer cause you any harm
since it's not active anymore
to make the sanitizer truly effective
the alcohol should be at least 60
then it'll finish off almost all the
germs around you
sometimes to make sure there are no
germs left on your body surface or
wherever you apply it
the alcohol proof might be higher up to
95 percent
want to peep into our pipes well when
the sanitizer flows out of the pipes
replacing the water we usually have the
temperature matters too
alcohol evaporates at 170 degrees
fahrenheit
which is super hot so if the hand
sanitizer
loses its alcohol it won't do its job
and technically
will stop being an actual sanitizer
becoming no more than some water-based
liquid
you aren't likely to do your washing up
at 170 degrees fahrenheit though
you can heat it up to evaporate alcohol
and wait for the substance to cool off
it will lose its antibacterial potential
but there's still some water
essential oils and other things to help
you wash those dirty dishes left after a
hearty family dinner
the water i mean the sanitizer we have
in the pipes
is lukewarm so it stays effective
the sanitizer's consistency used to be
one highly problematic thing
while launching the new supply system
the liquid version seemed to be
way more convenient for the plumbing
since it's not much different from water
unlike the liquid form the gel
consistency left
in the pipes kept drying off leaving a
nasty film-like coat
ever notice that sticky rim around the
dispenser every time
people would turn on a faucet the
gel-like substance left inside the pipes
dried out
almost instantly creating a kind of
growth inside the pipe
at a certain moment the pipe got
completely clogged
so the liquid version was chosen
recently
they tried reintroducing the gel version
which got seriously improved
it required some new special pipes but
it was a success
the thing is that gel is way more
economical
liquid stuff flows out and we often
don't even notice it
while gel gets out of the pipes more
slowly
okay i see you're famished want to have
an apple
hey don't forget to wash it before
eating turn off the faucet
the water to wash the fruit is over
there in the tank
sanitizers are a total no if you need to
wash vegetables and fruit
they're toxic and leave a film on the
food as well as get inside it
making it unsuitable for eating and if
there's a wax coating on apples
then only very hot almost boiling water
can dissolve it properly
if anyone tries to make their apple
super clean by rubbing some sanitizer in
it
they're going to end up having an apple
covered both with wax
and sanitizer tastes bitter
all right let's say you're exhausted and
a hot shower
seems to be the only thing that can help
you now well
unless it's a sanitizer shower you
already feel stinging pain and all the
small wounds
cuts or even scratches that you might
have
the shower gel just won't get foamy it's
so hard to mix it with gel sanitizer
feels like you're covered with jelly
like a big buttery loaf of bread
oh and here's some foam finally hey
how are you supposed to wash it off
remember to never
ever open your eyes in such a shower oh
no you've just done it i know it hurts
really bad
here's your towel and some lukewarm
water rinse your eyes
don't worry there won't be any permanent
damage only an
awfully unpleasant experience oh my
is that your skin it's all cracked and
dry
and there's also a rash the skin's
peeling off
as if you were a huge lizard ready to
say goodbye to its old hide
the barrier of your skin is made of
proteins and lipids
when too much alcohol is rubbed onto
your skin this barrier gets stripped
unless you moisturize properly after
such a shower or bath
you'd probably need another one with
moisturizing lotion to heal your skin
that shower didn't feel great your skin
is super rough to the touch
and it's all cracked rashy and itchy
even if you feel completely fresh every
time you go out of the shower
that freshness is the alcohol
evaporating from your skin's surface
making it drier every single time you'll
never be
actually 100 clean the thing is
that a water plus soap combo acts
differently
when these two act together soap
basically lifts all the dirt
dissolving excess sebum and all the
other things from the skin surface
and then water washes it all away
sanitizers
can't do that they may seem to have
cleaned all the visible and invisible
things that make your
let's say hands dirty but no matter how
much sanitizer
you pour fats sugar food residues
and many others are here to stay unless
you actually wash them away
the main idea of any sanitizer is to
help you get rid of the bacteria
unfortunately the bacteria will get
stronger and less afraid of sanitizers
with time
plus the sanitizer dried skin gets
cracked
which also weakens your defense against
germs and bacteria
here comes another problem on the one
hand you'll never be 100
clean with a sanitizer shower on the
other hand
you risk being too clean sometimes being
dirty
isn't bad at all sanitizers are a bit
too good at helping you fight the germs
getting rid of both bad and good
bacteria
they often affect microbiomes and can
even make us
less sensitive to antibiotics so if you
use a sanitizer
multiple times a day not to mention a
shower on a daily basis
your immune system will be much less
productive because it'll get used to
sanitizer doing all the dirty work
anyway sanitizers could be great if they
were used for flushing toilets
when you flush germs spread all around
the bathroom
creating a sort of germ cloud rising
almost three
feet around the toilet the droplets in
this cloud contain
tons of viruses that people inhale and
that
can lead to unwanted consequences a
sanitizer flush
probably wouldn't help get rid of them
all but it's still better than just
flushing with water and
no disinfection at all a toilet is
probably the only place where sanitizer
could be way more useful than normal
water
compare a regular water flush with a
sanitizer flush
the first one covers you from head to
toe with bacteria
while the second one doesn't even let
the bacteria out there are probably some
but most of them get in contact with
alcohol that the sanitizer flush
contains
this is probably the cleanest and safest
flush you've
ever had a sad thing is that hand
sanitizer can be
a reason why the ph level of your skin
changes
sanitizer ph level is usually seven or
somewhat higher so it might be a bit too
alkaline
our skin in turn tends to be more acidic
with a usual ph range of 5.5 and 6.5
it's recommended to use gloves when
using tap sanitizer
for someone who needs to wash the floors
or something that's
another reason why most people avoid
standard home showers
and opt for home water tanks there's no
point in washing your body in a rubber
suit designed for such a shower
anyway no hand rub can ever replace
actual water and good old soap
even in 2150 sanitizers can help you
finish those germs
lasting for up to six hours it could be
cool though
to have an extra faucet with hand rub
flowing out of it
just for sanitary needs but we don't
want to have all the water replaced
a freshly brewed coffee faucet sounds
better how about that